# Testing Strategy

## 1. Unit Testing

### 1.1 Service Layer Tests
```typescript
// Academic service tests
describe('AcademicService', () => {
  describe('createCourse', () => {
    it('should create a course with valid input', async () => {
      // Test implementation
    });

    it('should validate prerequisites', async () => {
      // Test implementation
    });

    it('should handle duplicate course codes', async () => {
      // Test implementation
    });
  });
});

// Assessment service tests
describe('AssessmentService', () => {
  describe('gradeSubmission', () => {
    it('should calculate grades correctly', async () => {
      // Test implementation
    });

    it('should apply grading rules', async () => {
      // Test implementation
    });

    it('should update student metrics', async () => {
      // Test implementation
    });
  });
});
```

### 1.2 Validation Tests
```typescript
// Schema validation tests
describe('ValidationSchemas', () => {
  describe('assessmentSchema', () => {
    it('should validate correct input', () => {
      // Test implementation
    });

    it('should reject invalid scores', () => {
      // Test implementation
    });

    it('should handle optional fields', () => {
      // Test implementation
    });
  });
});
```

## 2. Integration Testing

### 2.1 API Route Tests
```typescript
// Academic routes
describe('Academic Routes', () => {
  describe('POST /api/trpc/courses.create', () => {
    it('should create course with valid input', async () => {
      // Test implementation
    });

    it('should handle validation errors', async () => {
      // Test implementation
    });

    it('should check authorization', async () => {
      // Test implementation
    });
  });
});

// Assessment routes
describe('Assessment Routes', () => {
  describe('POST /api/trpc/assessments.submit', () => {
    it('should accept valid submission', async () => {
      // Test implementation
    });

    it('should validate submission deadline', async () => {
      // Test implementation
    });

    it('should handle file uploads', async () => {
      // Test implementation
    });
  });
});
```

### 2.2 Database Tests
```typescript
// Database operations
describe('Database Operations', () => {
  describe('Course Management', () => {
    it('should handle concurrent enrollments', async () => {
      // Test implementation
    });

    it('should maintain referential integrity', async () => {
      // Test implementation
    });

    it('should handle cascading deletes', async () => {
      // Test implementation
    });
  });
});
```

## 3. End-to-End Testing

### 3.1 User Flows
```typescript
// Student enrollment flow
describe('Student Enrollment', () => {
  it('should complete enrollment process', async () => {
    // Visit course catalog
    // Select course
    // Submit enrollment
    // Verify enrollment status
  });
});

// Assessment submission flow
describe('Assessment Submission', () => {
  it('should submit and grade assessment', async () => {
    // Access assessment
    // Complete questions
    // Upload attachments
    // Submit assessment
    // Verify submission
    // Check grading
  });
});
```

### 3.2 UI Component Tests
```typescript
// Dashboard components
describe('Dashboard', () => {
  it('should render role-specific content', async () => {
    // Test implementation
  });

  it('should handle real-time updates', async () => {
    // Test implementation
  });

  it('should manage state correctly', async () => {
    // Test implementation
  });
});
```

## 4. Performance Testing

### 4.1 Load Tests
```typescript
// API endpoint load tests
describe('API Load Testing', () => {
  it('should handle concurrent requests', async () => {
    // Test implementation
  });

  it('should maintain response times', async () => {
    // Test implementation
  });

  it('should scale horizontally', async () => {
    // Test implementation
  });
});
```

### 4.2 Stress Tests
```typescript
// System stress tests
describe('System Stress Testing', () => {
  it('should handle peak loads', async () => {
    // Test implementation
  });

  it('should recover from failures', async () => {
    // Test implementation
  });

  it('should maintain data integrity', async () => {
    // Test implementation
  });
});
```

## 5. Security Testing

### 5.1 Authentication Tests
```typescript
// Authentication flows
describe('Authentication', () => {
  it('should prevent unauthorized access', async () => {
    // Test implementation
  });

  it('should handle session management', async () => {
    // Test implementation
  });

  it('should enforce password policies', async () => {
    // Test implementation
  });
});
```

### 5.2 Authorization Tests
```typescript
// Role-based access control
describe('Authorization', () => {
  it('should enforce role permissions', async () => {
    // Test implementation
  });

  it('should handle campus-specific access', async () => {
    // Test implementation
  });

  it('should protect sensitive operations', async () => {
    // Test implementation
  });
});
```

## 6. Accessibility Testing

### 6.1 Component Tests
```typescript
// Accessibility compliance
describe('Accessibility', () => {
  it('should meet WCAG guidelines', async () => {
    // Test implementation
  });

  it('should support keyboard navigation', async () => {
    // Test implementation
  });

  it('should work with screen readers', async () => {
    // Test implementation
  });
});
```

## 7. Test Configuration

### 7.1 Jest Configuration
```javascript
// jest.config.js
module.exports = {
  preset: 'ts-jest',
  testEnvironment: 'node',
  setupFilesAfterEnv: ['<rootDir>/tests/setup.ts'],
  moduleNameMapper: {
    '^@/(.*)$': '<rootDir>/src/$1'
  },
  collectCoverageFrom: [
    'src/**/*.{ts,tsx}',
    '!src/**/*.d.ts'
  ]
};
```

### 7.2 Testing Utilities
```typescript
// Test helpers
export const createTestUser = async (role: UserRole) => {
  // Create test user
};

export const createTestCourse = async (options: CourseOptions) => {
  // Create test course
};

export const createTestAssessment = async (options: AssessmentOptions) => {
  // Create test assessment
};
``` 